# Merge decompiled prebuilt apps with AOSP apps

* This is not an exact instructions.<br>
Please do your own researches.<br>
There might be plenty of examples exist on git hosting websites.

## Trial and error

Not all apps can directly includable on AOSP.<br>
And some apps requires reverse engineering...<br>
And some extreme cases, you might even want to merge prebuilt apps with AOSP apps...<br>
<br>
For example, if you want to merge prebuilt Settings with AOSP one,<br>

### 1. Decompile with `apktool`

```bash
apktool d -r SettingsOEM.apk
```

(Don't decompile resources by adding -r option to prevent rebuild breakages)

### 2. Fix Resource linking

Find and replace ALL hex ref of resouces to actual vars inside of resource classes (e.g. `R$string`).

For example, from this

```java
const v0, 0x7f040ad0
```

to this

```java
sget v0, Lcom/android/settings/R$string;->ok_button:I
```

If you're using `VS Code`,<br>
open all `R$*.smali` files in the new window<br>
and do `ctrl+shift+f` for opened file wide search.<br>
Or, create auto replace script.

### 3. Recompile with `apktool`

```bash
apktool b SettingsOEM.apk
```

### 3. Retrieving classes from dex files with `d2j-dex2jar`

```bash
d2j-dex2jar.sh SettingsOEM.apk
```

### 4. Clean-up and import

unzip `SettingsOEM-dex2jar.jar`<br>
Clean-up and import required classes and resources that you want.<br>
Zip classes to `SettingsOEM-lib.jar`<br>
Place resources to (e.g.) res dir.<br>
You should check whether classes names are not duplicated.<br>
Target apps' resources will be overrided by your imported ones.

### Additional. Decompile with `jadx` to get decompiled java files for better code edit

```bash
jadx SettingsOEM-lib.jar
```

Remove class inside `SettingsOEM-lib.jar` and place java files<br>
to corresponding dirs such as `src/com/android/...`.

### 5. Define `Android.bp`

* This is just an pseudo example.

```go
java_import  {
    name: "SettingsOEM-lib",
    sdk_version: "current",
    jars: ["libs/SettingsOEM-lib.jar"],
}

android_library {
    name: "SettingsOEM-core",
    platform_apis: true,

    resource_dirs: [
        "res",
    ],
    static_libs: [
        "SettingsOEM-lib",
    ],
    manifest: "AndroidManifest.xml",
}

android_app {
    name: "SettingsOEM",
    static_libs: [
        "SettingsOEM-core",
    ],
    srcs: [
        "src/**/*.java",
    ],
    defaults: ["platform_app_defaults"],
    platform_apis: true,
    certificate: "platform",
    system_ext_specific: true,
    privileged: true,

    overrides: [
        "Settings",
    ],
}
```

Include that app as module when you build AOSP.<br>
Still it will requires bunch of fixes...<br>
ADB logcat will be your friend for debugging.

___
> - Written by: [someone5678](https://github.com/someone5678)
> - Date: 2023-07-07
